So, guys, welcome back in this section, we will going to study in detail the memory management and
Linux, so let us go through the agenda.
So in this section, we will going to study memory management and Linux on two fronts.
We are going to study how memory is managed by the operating system, and we will study that how heap
memory of a running process is managed by by the operating system.
So when it comes to the stack memory, the stack memory plays a vital role when a procedure is called
and when a processor is returned.
So suppose you have a function one and support function one makes a call to the function too.
So this is called procedure call and then function to complete its execution.
And when it returns to function one function, one presumes its execution.
This is called procedure return.
So please know that procedure call and procedure return is supported by the stack memory.
So it is the stack memory which makes the procedure, call and procedure a written possible.
So we will see that stack memory management is done when a procedure is called and when a procedure
is written, when it comes to the memory, the heat memory plays a vital role in locating a memory to
a process and allocating a memory from a process.
So we already know that a process invokes Maalox and some call in order to claim the memory from the
operating system.
And contrary to this, a process makes a call to the filesystem call in order to release a memory back
to the operating system.
So who will go on to study in detail?
That whole operating system manages the memory process, request the memory from the operating system,
using mallock, using mallock or similar system calls, and how operating system keeps a track of all
the memory that is assigned to a process and how operating system actually releases the memory back
to the memory region going forward.
The concepts like paging demand, paging, et cetera, are out of the scope of this course.
So you should check the operating system cause for this purpose, right?
We will only going to focus on the science behind memory management when the process is in a state of
execution and therefore we have a splitted this module into two parts.
First, we will going to study the stack memory management and after that we will going to study, hyp
memory management.
Also note that this topic of discussion is of great importance from interview perspective.
Asking the question on memory management in Linux is one of the most favorite and pet questions that
is asked in the interviews.
And if you really are putting forth system programming jobs in the domain of Linux system programming
are driver programming or kernel programming, then it is not possible that you are not asked a question
on this topic.